GWEN IFILL: Good
evening. I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
tonight: We go to the community
of Flint, Michigan, where
a water crisis has the governor
on the defensive and residents
outraged.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead this
Wednesday: the virus now found
in 20 countries and causing
brain damage in infants.
GWEN IFILL: Then, we catch up
with two reporters on the
campaign trail to go beyond the
polls
in Iowa and New Hampshire.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the second
conversation in our series on
Understanding Autism, telling
the many stories
of the disorder.
CAREN ZUCKER, Co-Author, "In a
Different Key: The Story of
Autism": Some guy stood up and
said, "Hey, he's got autism.
What's your problem? What's your
reason for acting like a jerk?"
And what happened is a
community formed around him.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wall Street spent
another day on the downside, and
the only question was,
how low would they go? The Dow
Jones industrial average was off
550 points before a late rally.
It ended with a loss of 249
points to close at 15766. The
Nasdaq fell five and the S&P
500 dropped 22. All this was
driven by another sharp drop in
oil prices to just over $26.50
a barrel.
GWEN IFILL: Numbers of a very
different sort are also in, and
they show 2015 was Earth's
hottest year on record.
Scientists at NASA and NOAA, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration,
reported that today.
As this NASA animation shows,
the data show a steady
accumulation of heat in recent
decades.
And the researchers say it
should make doubters of climate
change think twice.
COMPTON TUCKER, NASA: Fifteen of
the past 16 years have been the
warmest years on record.
And when you see a run like
this, this is not something
which people can easily dismiss
and say it isn't true; 15 out of
16 is a pretty good batting
average.
GWEN IFILL: NOAA had already
announced that 2015 was the
second warmest year in the
United
States since record-keeping
started 121 years ago.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Pakistan,
Islamist militants killed at
least 18 students and two
teachers
at a university today and
wounded 23 others. The attackers
stormed the school in the
northwestern
city of Charsadda, before being
cornered and killed by soldiers.
Ambulance sirens wailed outside
Bacha Khan University even as
the battle raged inside.
Four militants had sneaked in
under cover of early morning fog
and started shooting.
MAN (through translator): We
heard firing from the back of
the campus. We thought maybe
some people were fighting. Then
the firing increased. Then he
said, get into the rooms.
Don't go out.
MAN (through translator): There
was so much panic and fear that
a friend of mine jumped
from the university building.
The building is very high, yet
he jumped from it in because
he was so scared. We saw the
militants chanting, "Allah is
greatest."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Police and
military forces descended on the
campus and counterattacked.
Washington Post reporter Tim
Craig tracked the operation from
Islamabad.
TIM CRAIG, Washington Post: It
was quite foggy, so they
actually used helicopters to
sort
of see the ground of the campus,
because it was really foggy. So,
helicopters were used.
They rappelled commandos onto
the school grounds to sort of
fight the terrorists.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Friends and
family waited for news of loved
ones as a prolonged gun battle
followed. Police say they had
to proceed with caution.
SAEED KHAN WAZIR, Police Chief
(through translator): This was a
short lived operation,
approximately
two hours in duration, in which
time we finished the militants.
Two of them were on the hostel
roof top, but there was some
confusion that they might be
students, as they were
young-looking.
Otherwise, we could easily have
targeted them in the beginning.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A breakaway
faction of the Pakistani Taliban
claimed responsibility,
but the main Taliban group
called it un-Islamic. The attack
echoed the 2014 massacre at a
grade
school in nearby Peshawar that
killed more than 150 people,
mostly children and teachers.
TIM CRAIG: Since then, the army
has really sort of stepped up
its response to this menace
and this threat. And terrorism
attacks went way down this year,
depending on what study
you are looking at, 50 percent
down, 70 percent down.
But clearly, as a resident of
Pakistan at the moment, I can
say it's a much safer place.
With that said, as everyone
around the world knows, it only
takes one time for a terrorist
to be able to enter a location
to carry out a horrific attack.
JUDY WOODRUFF: After today's
attack, Pakistani Prime Minister
Nawaz Sharif vowed again to
wipe out the menace of
terrorism in his country.
Meanwhile, in Afghanistan, a
Taliban car bomber killed seven
people on a minibus in Kabul.
The vehicle carried journalists
for Tolo News, a private TV
channel that's reported on
Taliban
abuses.
GWEN IFILL: Iran's supreme
leader has thanked the country's
Revolutionary Guards for
detaining
10 U.S. soldiers -- sailors,
that is, last week. The
Americans were held for 15 hours
after straying into Iranian
waters. On his Web site today,
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei praised
the guard's action, and said:
"What they did in the Persian
Gulf was right."
Khamenei also said Iranian
protesters who stormed the Saudi
Arabian Embassy this month
had harmed Iran and Islam. The
Saudis severed diplomatic ties
after the attack.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's
confirmation today that Islamic
State militants have destroyed
Iraq's oldest Christian
monastery. Satellite photos
obtained by the Associated Press
show
St. Elijah's Monastery in Mosul
was leveled in September of
2014. It had stood for 1,400
years.
REV. PAUL THABIT HABIB, Iraqi
Priest (through translator): It
became a spiritual place for
the Christians to visit and to
have religious ceremonies there.
The monastery attracted
all the people from Mosul,
Christians and Muslims. All the
poets, historians and travelers
wrote about this monastery. It
became a very important place
for the history of the church
in Iraq.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the past 18
months, the Islamic State has
damaged or destroyed hundreds
of ancient cultural sites
in Syria and Iraq.
GWEN IFILL: Back in this
country, Senate Democrats
blocked a Republican bill to
toughen screenings
for Syrian and Iraqi refugees
entering the U.S. The two sides
jousted over whether it
would prevent Islamic State
militants from entering the
country or simply punish the
innocent.
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN (D),
Illinois: I don't understand why
the Republicans in the Senate
and the Republican presidential
candidates have declared war on
these poor refugees.
I don't understand why they
ignore the fact that these
people are going through closer
scrutiny, more investigations,
more questions, and more delays
than any visitors to the United
States from any other country.
SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R), Texas:
What this legislation is about,
though, is about national
security,
people who are refugees, whether
they're adequately vetted by the
appropriate authorities before
they come to the United States
and live in our communities.
This is not about banning
refugees.
GWEN IFILL: The bill cleared the
Republican-led House last fall
with a veto-proof majority.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Nearly all of
Detroit's 100 public schools
were closed today, as teachers
staged their latest and largest
sick-out. They're trying to draw
attention to a lack
of funding, low pay, crumbling
buildings and large class sizes.
The sick-out kept thousands
of students home and coincided
with President Obama's visit to
the city to tout the auto
industry's recovery.
GWEN IFILL: And an automobile
with special status is going on
the auction block in
Philadelphia.
Pope Francis used the black Fiat
during his visit to the U.S.
last September. The auction
is set for January 29. Proceeds
will go to the Roman Catholic
archdiocese and the Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And coming up on
the "NewsHour": the latest on
Flint, Michigan's toxic water
crisis; warnings against a
spreading virus that causes
child deformities; a call to
de-emphasize
test scores in college
applications; and much more.
GWEN IFILL: Truth be told, the
water crisis in Flint, Michigan,
was a story that has been
unfolding for years, and has
only recently begun attracting
regional attention. But now
the massive lead contamination
of the city's drinking water is
very much on the national
radar.
Children in Flint now have
double and in some cases triple
the levels of lead in their
blood,
and a federal emergency was
declared last weekend.
Today, in Detroit, President
Obama addressed the troubles in
Flint.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States: I know that if I
was a parent up there, I
would be beside myself that my
kids' health could be at risk.
It is a reminder of why
you can't shortchange basic
services that we provide to our
people and that we together
provide as a government to make
sure that public health and
safety is preserved.
(APPLAUSE)
GWEN IFILL: In fact, Michigan
Governor Rick Snyder has
apologized, and pledged to take
new steps to protect the
community. Snyder himself is
under increasing pressure to
detail
what his administration
knew, and when.
And in Flint, there's plenty of
anger and questions over who is
to blame.
The "NewsHour"'s William
Brangham is just back from Flint
with this report.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This
is how bad it's gotten.
WOMAN: A case of water.
WOMAN: A case of water for this
house. Did she get a filter?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In Flint,
Michigan, the sheriff's
department is going
door-to-door,
handing out bottled
water and filters.
Fire stations are now water
distribution centers. The
National Guard's been deployed,
and last
night in his state of the state
address, Michigan Governor Rick
Snyder heard to apologize.
GOV. RICK SNYDER (R), Michigan:
To you, the people of Flint, I
say tonight, as I have
before, I am sorry,
and I will fix it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Why? Because,
for a year-and-a-half, despite
repeated claims from officials
that
everything was fine, people in
Flint were drinking water
poisoned with lead, a toxin
that causes irreversible
damage to the human body.
KIM STREBY, Mother: It's every
kid on the block, it's every
baby on the block, it's
everybody, every old person.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: One of Kim
Streby's two sons, like
potentially thousands of other
kids in Flint, has elevated
levels of lead in his blood.
KIM STREBY: I was absolutely
disgusted to think that we are
paying an enormous price
for water that is dangerous,
that we can't use.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The crisis
began five years ago, because
the city of Flint was trying
to save money. This majority
black city has been in an
economic tailspin for decades,
ever since General Motors cut
production here. Forty percent
of Flint's 100,000 residents
live in poverty.
In 2011, Governor Rick Snyder
turned near total control of
Flint over to a series of
emergency managers. They began
major cost-cutting, including a
decision to try and save $5
million
by switching Flint's
water supply.
Officials decided said they
wanted to get water from Lake
Huron, which is 80 miles to
the east of us, but that
pipeline wasn't going to be
finished for two more years. And
so,
in the interim, they decided
they were going to get their
water from right here, from the
Flint River.
But as soon as the riverwater
began flowing into Flint in
April of 2014, red flags popped
up. The water smelled bad, and
it flowed in a startling array
of colors. E. coli and other
bacteria were discovered,
followed by chemicals that can
cause liver and kidney problems.
In the fall of 2014, the local
GM plant stopped using Flint
water because it was corroding
their auto parts.
RHONDA KELSO, Flint Resident: I
mean, you can see the
particulates in it. See it
floating?
See the brown stuff in it?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Yes. Yes.
RHONDA KELSO: Yes, that's in
our -- my daughter's body.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Lifetime Flint
resident Rhonda Kelso, like
thousands of other residents,
soon discovered there was also
poisonous lead in the water. The
whole problem occurred because
the Flint River corroded the
city's old lead pipes, leaching
the toxic metal into the water
supply. Kelso's 12-year-old
daughter, Kaylynn (ph), who's
already developmentally delayed
and hearing impaired, has now
tested positive for lead in her
blood.
RHONDA KELSO: They kept telling
us something was safe, and it
was revealed that it wasn't
safe. We had to rely on outside
agencies to let us know that the
water was poison. And
we already knew it was,
but we had to prove it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: One of the
people who helped prove it was
one of Kaylynn's doctors, Dr.
Mona Hanna-Attisha. She's the
director of the pediatric
residency program at Hurley
Medical Center in Flint.
DR. MONA HANNA-ATTISHA, Hurley
Medical Center: When
pediatricians hear anything
about lead,
we stand up straight and we
freak out, because we know lead.
And lead is a potent, known,
irreversible neurotoxin.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Late last
summer, Dr. Hanna-Attisha tried
to get county and state data on
how
much lead Flint's kids had been
absorbing into their blood, but
she hit roadblocks.
So she then pulled data on
roughly 1,700 kids from her own
hospital and other local
pediatricians.
DR. MONA HANNA-ATTISHA: We
didn't sleep. We did this right
away. This was the fastest
research project I have ever
done, because of kind of the
public health community
implications.
There was one neighborhood, one
specific ward of a city where
the percentage of lead poisoning
actually tripled. It went from
about 5 percent of kids to over
almost 16 percent of kids
who were tested who had
elevated blood lead levels.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: She released
her findings at a news
conference last September, but
her
data was dismissed by
state health officials.
DR. MONA HANNA-ATTISHA: We were
attacked. So, we were told that
we were unfortunate
researchers, that we were...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Unfortunate?
DR. MONA HANNA-ATTISHA:
Unfortunate researchers, that we
were causing near-hysteria.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But two weeks
later, officials acknowledged
her findings were correct. And,
separately, researchers at
Virginia Tech had also confirmed
high levels of lead in Flint's
water.
This contamination could've been
avoided if officials had only
added an anti-corrosion
agent to the water. In fact,
federal law requires it. But
they didn't do it in Flint, and
no
one has fully explained why.
DR. LAWRENCE REYNOLDS,
President, Mott Children's
Health Center: It's something
that no parent
would accept. It's something no
city, county, or state
government should accept. And
there's
no way it can be justified.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Dr. Lawrence
Reynolds is a pediatrician and
president of Mott Children's
Health Center. He says lead
causes a litany of problems for
kids, among them, delayed
mental development,
irritability, aggression and
learning problems.
DR. LAWRENCE REYNOLDS: If you
have seen those I.Q. curves
where there's the big hump and
the small tails, 5 percent on
either end, what lead exposure
does is it shifts the curve
to the lower I.Q. score, so we
will have more kids with lower
I.Q. and perhaps more children
who will have learning problems
and require services. But then
start multiplying these
things by thousands and imagine
what a school district has to
deal with.
KAREN WEAVER, Mayor of Flint,
Michigan: We're talking about a
whole generation of 5 and
under.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Newly elected
Mayor Karen Weaver campaigned on
fixing the water crisis,
and shortly after taking office
and with limited powers, she
declared a state of emergency,
trying to get her
city some help.
KAREN WEAVER: People said that
was something that couldn't be
done, but I said that let
them tell us no. Let them tell
the people of Flint that we
don't deserve these financial
resources, these supports and
these services for our families.
KIM STREBY: We don't live in
Third World conditions, where we
should have safe drinking water,
and we don't.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Kim Streby's
two sons are Ronan, who's 13,
and Jude, who's 11. He's
the one whose blood test came
back with elevated lead levels.
So you guys had been drinking
with it, cooking with it,
brushing your teeth in it,
taking
baths in it, 100 percent?
RONAN STREBY, Flint
Resident: Yes.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And then when
you found out that there was
something wrong with that
water, how did you
feel about that?
RONAN STREBY: I felt kind of
scared, like, to know that I was
using this water for pretty
much everything, and then I
found out that it could be
dangerous.
JUDE STREBY, Flint Resident: I
was kind of grossed out, because
imagine you drinking
water for a year and knowing
that there's something that can
be life-threatening.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As a parent, I
couldn't imagine the feeling
that for over a year-and-a-half
my kids were drinking water that
somebody should've known was
poisonous.
KIM STREBY: There are no words.
I don't know what to say. It's
anger, frustration. And
you wonder what's next.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: At least three
different class-action lawsuits
have now been filed,
blaming local and state
officials, even the governor,
for negligence.
Last night in Lansing, a crowd
gathered outside the capital,
demanding Governor Rick Snyder
resign for his role in the
crisis. Inside, Snyder focused
his speech on Flint and pledged
state officials would do all
they could to fix the problem.
GOV. RICK SNYDER: No citizen of
this great state should endure
this kind of catastrophe.
Government failed you, federal,
state and local leaders, by
breaking the trust you placed
in us.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But those
assurances aren't enough for
Rhonda Kelso. She's signed on to
one of those
class-action lawsuits.
RHONDA KELSO: Oh, they think
that we're a permanent
underclass and they think that
we're
uneducated and ignorant and that
we are the most violent city in
America, and people want
to dispose of people like that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Flint, as you
know, is a majority black
community, and when we look
at who is exposed to lead around
the country, those are also
majority black communities.
DR. LAWRENCE REYNOLDS: Yes.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do you think
that that's part of what's also
going on here?
DR. LAWRENCE REYNOLDS: Speaking
to me, as a person of color and
as a resident of the
city of Flint, I will ask the
other question: If this were a
Grand Blanc, Michigan,
Bloomfield
Hills, St. Joseph, Michigan,
which are mostly white,
middle-class, would we have had
the
same response if there
was a water issue?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And
what do you think?
DR. LAWRENCE REYNOLDS: There
would've been a completely
different response. It would
have been a more timely
response, and those complaints
would've been taken as
legitimate.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The city of
Flint has stopped using the
Flint River as its source, and
corrosion
control is now being used.
People from across the United
States have been donating tens
of thousands of bottles of
water, and more National Guard
troops have arrived to help
distribute them.
KIM STREBY: I love this city and
I love the people in this city
and it's a great city.
And this water situation is just
absolutely devastating to me,
but it isn't the definition
of the city.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Flint's
better than that.
KIM STREBY: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm William Brangham
in Flint, Michigan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next: growing
concerns over a mosquito-borne
virus that is linked with
birth defects and has moved into
South America, the Caribbean and
now the U.S. And, so far,
there's no treatment
for the virus.
Jeffrey Brown has the story.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Zika virus
has been known of for decades.
But beginning last May in
Brazil, it's taken a frightening
turn, being linked for the first
time to babies born with
unusually small heads and brain
damage, more than 3,800 cases to
date.
Zika is transmitted by
mosquitoes. And government
workers have been checking house
to house
in Brazil for breeding grounds.
MARCELO CASTRO, Health Minister
of Brazil (through translator):
We are in this battle,
this fight to do this
in a record time.
JEFFREY BROWN: In most cases,
individuals who contract the
virus show few or no symptoms.
But the virus is spreading,
already to a number of countries
and territories in South and
Central America and
the Caribbean.
There have also been a handful
of positive tests confirmed in
the U.S. In each of these
cases, the patient or mother is
believed to have picked up the
virus abroad.
STEVE HUARD, Florida Health
Department: The individual went
to the doctor, had known about
the Zika virus, let their
physician know that they were in
an area that had it. They
tested,
and came back positive.
JEFFREY BROWN: The CDC recently
issued an advisory recommending
that pregnant women
avoid travel to affected areas
and says those who have already
traveled to such areas and
are feeling sick should
be tested for infection.
I spoke about all this yesterday
with CDC Director Dr. Thomas
Frieden, and asked first
how serious a threat he
sees in the Zika virus.
DR. THOMAS FRIEDEN, Director,
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention: Zika is really
new in this form, although it's
been around, known since 1947.
It's only in the past eight
or nine years that we have seen
outbreaks of Zika, and only in
the past couple of months
that we have seen this large
number of cases of a serious
birth defect in Brazil which
appears to be related to Zika.
That's why we're recommending
that if you're pregnant and
you're thinking about travel,
check the CDC Web site to think
about whether you want to go to
that place or not.
JEFFREY BROWN: You're telling
people right now, pregnant
women, to think about
postponing.
You're not definitively saying
don't travel to these countries
yet?
DR. THOMAS FRIEDEN: We're
advising pregnant women not to
travel to places that have Zika
transmission, because there is
just too much we don't know, so
if it's possible to avoid
that travel, that's
important to do.
For anyone who is in an area
with Zika, pregnant or not, or
if a pregnant woman goes to a
place
or is in a place that may have
Zika virus spreading, it's
spread by mosquitoes, and
there are important things you
can do to reduce your risk of
getting a mosquito bite. You
can wear repellent. That works.
You have to wear it all day
long, because these are
mosquitoes
that bite during the day.
You can also wear clothing that
has permethrin in it. These are
both safe in pregnancy. You
can wear long sleeves and long
pants to reduce your exposure,
and you can stay inside in
air conditioning or screened
spaces. All of these things
really do reduce your risk of
mosquito bites. But we are
recommending at this point,
until we know more, just to be
safer, that pregnant women, if
possible, avoid travel to places
that have Zika virus
transmission.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, you have
said several times there's too
much -- there is a lot we
just don't know.
Let's just go through what we
don't, what we do know, because
I gather that, until recently,
most cases involving Zika were
not very -- considered very
dangerous, right? Many of them
had no
symptoms whatsoever.
DR. THOMAS FRIEDEN: Absolutely.
We have generally seen as many
as four out of five people who
get infected by Zika don't
know it. They don't have any
symptoms. And among those who
get infected, the symptoms
tend to be mild and go away
within about a week, a rash and
fever and not feeling well.
We have seen some reports of
people who may have weakness or
paralysis temporarily after
Zika. Whether that's related or
not, we still don't know. That's
being investigated. But
what's really concerning is this
large number of birth defects
that have been identified
in Brazil.
And studies in our CDC lab have
identified that, in some of the
infants and some of the
miscarried fetuses, because
there were miscarriages, we have
identified the Zika virus. That
doesn't
say that it's the only cause or
the cause of all of them. There
may be other factors,
nutritional or other infections,
that are going into that, but
this is a very unusual
circumstance. It's very unusual
that we identify a new virus
that causes serious birth
defects.
JEFFREY BROWN: There was a case
reported in Hawaii of a baby
born with brain damage. The
mother in that case
had lived in Brazil?
DR. THOMAS FRIEDEN: That's
correct. The mother had lived in
Brazil, gotten Zika in Brazil,
and then the baby, sadly, was
born with a malformation or
problems in Hawaii.
And we have seen people,
travelers coming back from areas
with Zika, with Zika in the
U.S. We have diagnosed a dozen
so far in our laboratory. And
this is not unexpected. When
Zika is in a community, it can
spread quite widely. But what we
have seen is that it tends
to be associated with one
particular type of mosquito that
is only in certain parts
of the U.S..
And in those parts of the U.S.,
with the use of mosquito
repellent, air conditioning,
screens,
we haven't seen large-scale
transmission with viruses with
this type. But we're still
learning
more and working hard to
learn more about this virus.
JEFFREY BROWN: But is it not
likely to spread into the U.S.,
given the pattern so far, and
as the weather warms
up come spring?
DR. THOMAS FRIEDEN: I don't have
a crystal ball. I can't predict
what will happen.
I can tell you what has happened
with other similar viruses. This
is spread by the mosquito
that spreads the dengue virus.
And there are some parts of
Florida and potentially some
parts of Texas where we have
seen transmission of that virus,
so it's possible that that
will occur.
However, this virus is a little
different, in that it mostly
affects people, and so -- and
people only carry it for a few
days. So how widely it will
spread in an area where you're
not seeing people without air
conditioning, you're not seeing
people otherwise, we don't
know.
But it is certainly possible
that we will see cases in
certain parts of the U.S. and
possible we might even see
clusters. But we don't predict
that we would see something
widespread, as we saw, for
example, with West Nile virus,
where you have a bird reservoir
which can spread it
and perpetuate it.
But we can't say for sure. What
we can say for sure is that, if
you're pregnant, you
would think twice before you go
to a place with Zika. We advise
you not to. And for anyone
who is in a place with Zika or
other mosquito-borne diseases,
you can take practical steps to
greatly reduce your risk of
getting a mosquito bite, and
therefore a disease spread by
mosquitoes.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Dr.
Thomas Frieden of the CDC, thank
you so much.
DR. THOMAS FRIEDEN: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: The CDC also
launched its latest anti-smoking
campaign this week. We spoke
with Dr. Frieden about its
impact. And we will show you
part of that conversation
tomorrow.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
candidates crisscross Iowa to
win last-minute votes; changing
perception
through stories of autism; and a
photojournalist remembered
through the stunning photos she
left behind.
But, first, many high school
seniors have finished college
applications. And now they're
waiting to find out whether
taking advanced courses,
prepping for entrance exams and
agonizing
over essays will all pay off.
A new report from the Harvard
Graduate School of Education
calls on colleges to lower the
pressure on students to impress
admissions committees by racking
up achievements and
accolades. The report, called
"Turning the Tide," recommends
limiting the number of advanced
placement classes and
extracurricular activities that
students can list on
applications.
Instead, it emphasizes community
service and other changes.
Richard Weissbourd is the lead
author of the report and he's a
senior lecturer at the Harvard
Graduate School of Education.
Richard Weissbourd, thank you
very much for joining us.
What is it that's wrong with the
college application process
right now?
RICHARD WEISSBOURD, Harvard
Graduate School of Education:
Well, I think, right now, what
students are doing is they're --
some students are racking up
accomplishments. I think they
think, particularly in affluent
communities, that the goal is
long brag sheets.
And the message we're trying to
send here is that the goal isn't
long brag sheets. The
goal is meaningful academic
engagement and spirited,
passionate learning, and it's
meaningful
ethical engagement. It's being
involved in your community,
concern for others, concern
for the greater good,
for the public good.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So what is it
that students are emphasizing
that you would like to see
less of?
RICHARD WEISSBOURD: Well, I
think one of the things that
they are very focused on is
creating
-- accumulating extracurricular
activities, accumulating A.P.
courses.
And what the admission deans who
have endorsed this report -- and
over 50 admission deans
have endorsed it -- what they're
saying, what they're saying
collectively, and it's very
important that they're saying it
collectively, you know, they're
on the same page about this,
they're on the same highway --
what they're saying is, you
know, you're not going to be
penalized if you take a lot of
A.P. courses, but you don't need
to. You're not going to
be penalized if you take
a few A.P. courses.
It's fine. It's totally
appropriate to list a couple,
two or three extracurricular
activities
that have been meaningful to you
and to describe why they're
meaningful to you. We're not
looking
for long lists of
activities either.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as you said,
it is about 50 colleges and
universities that signed on.
There were clearly some that
didn't sign on. Aren't there
going to be schools out there
that do care about some of the
ways these students perform in
ways that you're saying
should be de-emphasized?
Isn't there going to be a
different set of criteria now at
different schools?
RICHARD WEISSBOURD: Well, you
know, I think there's a few
different issues here.
All the Ivy League schools have
signed on. A lot of the very
selective schools have signed
on. And many non -- schools that
are not especially selective
have signed on. And I think, you
know, the criteria are still
that they're looking for
students who are academically
rigorous, but they're also
saying we're looking for
students who lead well-balanced
lives,
who are involved in
their communities.
And they're not involved in
community service as an
accomplishment, as a way to
impress
admissions officers. They are
involved in things that are
meaningful to them and
potentially
transformative to them and
enable them to have experiences
of diversity across race,
class, culture, also political
and religious orientation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is there a risk
there, though, Richard
Weissbourd, that you create a
different
sort of pressure on students, to
rack up the kind of community
service that you're saying
you and others want to
see them engage in?
RICHARD WEISSBOURD: Well, you
know, I think that there are
some students and parents who
are going to game the
system. That's always true.
But part of what we're saying is
-- or part of what we're
motiving them to do is to do
forms of community engagement
that we think will be
transformative for them.
And one of the things about
community service and community
engagement is, if students have
authentic choices, and it's
well-structured,
well-supervised, they have time
for reflection
with adults and with peers, even
if it's mandatory, it tends to
be helpful and it often is
transformative.
It's a powerful learning
experience. So you might even do
it for the wrong reason, but
end up getting a lot
of benefit from it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So you think
that's the way it works, you
mandate somebody to do community
service and then you believe
they will get something out of
it?
RICHARD WEISSBOURD: Well, we're
not mandating it. We are
encouraging it. We are saying
that,
you know, it's not about doing a
brief stint overseas. It is
about doing something
meaningful,
doing something in a diverse
group, doing it for a year, nine
months to a year, doing
it for a sustained
period of time.
And the chances are greater that
you're going to get something
out of that kind of experience,
and you're going to be able to
describe in the application in a
way that's meaningful
and expresses what was
meaningful about it to you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it's a
report certainly worth looking
at.
Richard Weissbourd at the
Harvard School of Education, we
thank you.
RICHARD WEISSBOURD: Well, thank
you. It's a pleasure to be here.
GWEN IFILL: We turn now to the
race for the White House and a
familiar face on the campaign
trail.
Former Alaska Governor Sarah
Palin stumped for Republican
candidate Donald Trump today,
after giving him her official
blessing last night in Iowa. In
Tulsa, Oklahoma, she took
aim for the second day in a row
at the Republican establishment.
SARAH PALIN (R), Former Alaska
Governor: Here we got a redhead
from the big red apple running
for president, and yet the GOP
machine, all of a sudden,
they're saying we're not red
enough, we're not
conservative enough.
And I say, what in the world do
they know about conservatism?
GWEN IFILL: And with less than
two weeks to go before the first
voting begins, we get
the latest now from political
reporters in two key states.
Paul Steinhauser, political
director for NH1 News Network,
joins us from Manchester, New
Hampshire. And O. Kay Henderson
is news director at Radio Iowa.
She is in Des Moines, Iowa.
Kay, what is the effect of the
Sarah Palin bombshell yesterday
in Iowa?
O. KAY HENDERSON, News Director,
Radio Iowa: Well, number one, it
plays into the Trump
playbook. It steals all of the
oxygen from the room, and that's
all anyone is talking
about today, is Sarah
Palin and Donald Trump.
Number two, she's kept in touch
with Tea Party activists here in
Iowa over the years. And,
number three, I think it
amplifies the core message that
he has been spreading. And she
uses a phrase typically called
crony capitalism up against what
she's been railing for years,
and he is the embodiment of that
in terms of how he's motivating
people who are upset
against the establishment and
the -- quote -- "crony
capitalists."
GWEN IFILL: There's no question
she can suck the air out of the
political room, and she's
also had the effect of getting
people elected, including Ted
Cruz to the United States
Senate,
who seems to have been the one
person really campaigning for
her endorsement.
O. KAY HENDERSON: And, also, she
endorsed Terry Branstad here in
Iowa when he ran to
return as governor in 2010. She
was an early endorser of Joni
Ernst, the U.S. senator from
Iowa, who won in a surprise --
in a five-way primary in 2014
and then went on to win the
seat in the U.S. Senate.
GWEN IFILL: Paul Steinhauser,
does it reverberate the same way
in New Hampshire?
PAUL STEINHAUSER, NH1 News
Network: Maybe not as important
here in New Hampshire, but,
yes, it's definitely an
endorsement that can't hurt
Donald Trump. It could only help
him
here.
I was covering Ted Cruz. I was
speaking with the senator
minutes after the endorsement
happened. I was able to talk to
him about that. And he
definitely downplayed the
endorsement.
He said he's still friends with
Sarah Palin. He recognized that
she helped him get elected
to the Senate in 2012.
But then Ted Cruz looked me
straight in the eye and he said,
at the end of the day, it's
the voters who are going to
determine who's the real
conservative candidate in this
race.
And it hurts his argument a
little bit, because he's been in
a war of words with Donald Trump
for two weeks now, arguing that
Trump is not the real
conservative. When Palin comes
and
endorses Trump, yes, its stings
a little bit. But, at the end of
the day, how much do
endorsements
matter? I guess we will
find out in a few weeks.
GWEN IFILL: Well, of course,
it's easy, especially leading up
to the voting in just a couple
of weeks, Paul, to get caught up
in the day-to-day polls, but
there are a couple of polls in
the past 24 hours which show
Donald Trump with a quite
definitive lead in New
Hampshire.
PAUL STEINHAUSER: Yes.
And that has been the case for
quite some time. Unlike Iowa,
where you have got a real
horse race right now between
Trump and Cruz, here in the
Granite State, Trump has been
the front-runner, the clear
front-runner for quite some
time. The last two polls that
came
out in the last 24 hours
say the same thing.
Right now, the battle is for
second place and we have two
polls out in the last two
days that are very different,
one saying that John Kasich is
the clear second-place standing
-- in standing right now.
Another one shows Ted Cruz in
second place.
Cruz hasn't been here a lot
until this week. He's doing a
five-day bus tour. He's getting
some pretty large crowds. Kasich
is also roaming around the state
with his bus. And he's getting
some pretty large crowds as
well. Don't count out Jeb Bush.
Don't count out Chris Christie.
Don't count out Marco Rubio. We
really have a five-way battle
right now for second and
third places here in
New Hampshire, Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: Is it a five-way
battle in Iowa as well, Kay?
O. KAY HENDERSON: It seems to be
two tiers of competition here.
You have the Trump vs. Cruz
competing for number one, and
then you have Carson and Rubio
sort of positioned to be the
alternative in that second tier,
and then everybody else
is in that bottom tier, trying
to make their way to be a
competitor against Carson and
Rubio, and maybe emerge as
the establishment candidate.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about the
Democratic side of this
equation, Paul, which has also
tightened up far more than a lot
of people expected, especially
in New Hampshire.
PAUL STEINHAUSER: Yes, in New
Hampshire, it's been a very
different story than the rest
of the country.
We have had this great race
between Hillary Clinton and
Bernie Sanders going back to
July.
That wasn't the case elsewhere.
I know now he has tightened up
the race in Iowa, but
Sanders has been the
front-runner in all the polls
here, and a new one out just
yesterday
indicated him up 27 points.
Now, I don't know if we believe
that, but he is the front-runner
here. Maybe it's only
by eight or 10 or 12, but he is
the front-runner here. And that
has put Hillary Clinton on
the defensive. You have seen her
step up her attacks against
Bernie Sanders over the last
two weeks. You saw the debate
the other night. And just in the
last day or two, it's getting
even uglier.
Listen, Sanders is popular here.
He's from the neighboring state
of Vermont. But I think
it also shows that, just like we
saw with Republican primary
voters in New Hampshire,
Democratic primary voters, they
are frustrated, they're angry.
They're angry at politicians.
They're angry at Washington.
They look at Bernie Sanders.
Even though he's a politician,
he looks like the
anti-politician. That's why he's
getting a lot of this excitement
and that's why he's doing
well in the polls here.
GWEN IFILL: Are the Clinton
folks getting nervous in Iowa,
Kay?
O. KAY HENDERSON: Well, she is
dedicating a lot of her personal
time to come here in
Iowa and campaign
throughout the weekend.
I covered her in Toledo, Iowa,
earlier this weekend. And she
was telling voters that they
need to choose someone who has a
sensible, achievable agenda. It
struck me that is sort
of like your parents telling you
that you have to choose the
practical. And that's the
message that she's going out to
Iowans with to counter the
Bernie Sanders political
revolution
rhetoric that's really firing up
some of the Democrats in Iowa.
This is a real nail-biter here
in Iowa. It's hard to tell when
you're on the ground who
has the advantage.
GWEN IFILL: Well, it's funny,
because people usually resist
what their parents tell them
about these kinds of things.
They love the insurgents, the
bad boy.
But both in Iowa and New
Hampshire, both of you sum this
up for me. What are voters
telling
you that explains what's driving
this kind of volatility at this
stage in the campaign,
starting with you, Paul?
PAUL STEINHAUSER: Well, again, I
think it's just you throw all
the rules out the window
when it comes to
this election cycle.
Voters in both parties, they are
frustrated, they want something
different, they want change.
That's why you're seeing Bernie
Sanders and Donald Trump here in
New Hampshire resonating
so well and leading, and leading
by a lot in these latest polls,
Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: Kay?
O. KAY HENDERSON: If I could
quote Sarah Palin, last night,
she said, "We're mad because we
have been had."
I think that sums up what the
grassroots in both parties feels
like right now here on
the ground in Iowa.
GWEN IFILL: But, Kay, one of the
cliches of Iowa politics is, it
doesn't matter until
people will show up for these
very
difficult-to-manage-and-organize
caucuses.
Does that, in the end,
still hold true this year?
O. KAY HENDERSON: Clinton has an
advantage, in that she started
months before Sanders
and she had far more financial
resources to plow into an
organization that her people
think will turn people
out on caucus night.
Both Sanders and Trump have the
problem of actually telling
people that they have to
go to a specific site at a
specific time and figure out the
caucus process. It's not like
the New Hampshire primary, which
is easy. You have to caucus at a
specific time and
a specific location.
GWEN IFILL: Well, we
will be there with you.
O. Kay Henderson of Radio Iowa
Network and Paul Steinhauser of
-- political director
of NH1, thank you
both very much.
O. KAY HENDERSON: Thank you.
PAUL STEINHAUSER: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: And, of course, we
will always have the latest
political news for you here,
as the "PBS NewsHour" hosts the
next Democratic presidential
debate in Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
on February 11.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This will be the
first time the Democratic
candidates will meet after
votes are cast in those Iowa
caucuses and just two days after
the New Hampshire primary.
GWEN IFILL: We are working with
Facebook to start discussion
among voters now, inviting
engaged voters who are still
deciding how to vote to join our
new Facebook group. You
can talk with the "PBS NewsHour"
politics team and possibly have
one of your questions
asked during the debate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You can find out
more about our debate on our
Facebook group on the "NewsHour"
Facebook page.
GWEN IFILL: And we will see you
in Milwaukee on February 11.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we wrap up on
our series on Understanding
Autism.
Tonight, we get the perspective
of two seasoned journalists,
John Donvan and Caren Zucker.
They have been reporting on
autism for years, particularly
on some of the people behind
the fight to better understand
this disorder, from parents, to
doctors, to the afflicted
themselves.
And it's the main theme of their
new book, "In a Different Key:
The Story of Autism."
Jeff Brown talked
with them recently.
JEFFREY BROWN: Caren Zucker,
John Donvan, welcome to you.
JOHN DONVAN, Co-Author, "In a
Different Key: The Story of
Autism": Thank you.
CAREN ZUCKER, Co-Author, "In a
Different Key: The Story of
Autism": Hi.
JEFFREY BROWN: You write in the
introduction the story of autism
is many -- actually many
stories.
John Donvan, start. What does
that mean, when you look at the
kind of arc of the story you're
telling?
JOHN DONVAN: Well, the arc is
that there's a very big picture,
like the tide moving in
and moving out, but there are
a lot of waves along the way.
The story of autism is made up
of so many people in so many
periods of time. And "In
a Different Key" tries to bring
them all into one place to show
how this condition that
we had never heard of until
about 75 years ago came into
consciousness.
JEFFREY BROWN: And many people
not even until much more
recently than that. Right?
JOHN DONVAN: Many people only
heard about it in the last 15
years or so, largely as
a result of controversy.
CAREN ZUCKER: And also, in
autism, if you have met one
person with autism, you have
met one person, because
the spectrum is so huge.
JEFFREY BROWN: You both come to
this through personal
experience, right?
JOHN DONVAN: Yes.
CAREN ZUCKER: Yes. I have a 21
year-old son with autism who's
now a young adult.
Our book looks back at the
history at how far forward we
have gone, from being in
institutions
and not having a place to go to
school. But it sort of stops at
adults.
JOHN DONVAN: Well, yes.
And our thought is that the
people who fought battles over
the last 75 years to get their
kids out of institutions and
into schools where legally they
were barred -- schools
could say, we're not going
to educate your kid.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Yes.
JOHN DONVAN: Things moved so
much, not perfectly, but they
moved so much that we want that
message
to be an inspiration for the job
that's still there to done.
JEFFREY BROWN: You talk about
things being shrouded in shame,
secrecy, and ignorance.
Give me an example. What
do you mean by that?
CAREN ZUCKER: Well, parents were
told to put their children in
institutions. And that was
the thing that you did.
Keeping them at home, nobody did
that. And if they did, they hid
them. And if they put
them in institutions, they
didn't tell anyone. It was what
doctors told you to do.
JOHN DONVAN: And to forget about
your kids. They would say, put
your kids there, go home,
take care of your kids who are
normal, and try to forget those
kids. And some parents,
many parents did that through
about the 1950s or '60s.
JEFFREY BROWN: The whole history
you tell from back then, even
through to today, is
filled with confusions,
arguments, counterarguments.
So, everything seems to be on
the table, definitions,
responses, even to today,
whether there's
an actual epidemic,
all of this. Right?
JOHN DONVAN: Well, that's
because autism itself is
actually not a very clearly
defined concept.
And the proof of that is, the
definition has changed again and
again and again over the
years. It's a condition where
there's no DNA test, there's no
cheek swab, biological marker.
Autism is defined by looking at
behaviors. And everybody looks
at behaviors differently.
So, over the years, autism has
almost been a diagnosis in the
eye of the beholder, which
allows for all kinds of
arguments and dissension and
theories and competing therapies
to come
into play.
CAREN ZUCKER: But there's one
thing that's been a constant,
which is the parental love.
If you read the stories in this
book, throughout all of the
battles, all of the fights, all
of the controversies, it's all
about fighting for their kids.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's a story,
that runs through the book,
parents, and then activists, of
course, but parents
really leading the way.
JOHN DONVAN: Parents were...
(CROSSTALK)
CAREN ZUCKER: Right, which is
why this is -- this isn't just
-- this isn't a book for
the autism community, per se.
It's for everybody who's ever
had a child, who's ever cared
about
somebody. What wouldn't
you do for your child?
JEFFREY BROWN: Was there a
character that jumps out at you
that you could tell us about?
JOHN DONVAN: Our friend Donald
Triplett was the first child
diagnosed with autism. Caren
found him back in 2007.
You found a phone number that
you thought might be his, and
you called him up. And we
weren't sure it was the guy who
showed up in the medical
literature as case one, because
the only name was
given was Donald T.
And what did you hear?
CAREN ZUCKER: I got his
answering machine. And he
answered, "Hello, this is Donald
Triplett.
Happy June. Happy fall. Happy
Christmas. And a great 2007 to
you."
And I knew as soon as -- it was,
like, John, it's -- we found
him. We got him. This is
Donald. We definitely
have Donald.
JOHN DONVAN: He's such a
wonderful guy, Donald, but the
wonderful thing about his story,
a
couple of things, one is that
who is and who he has turned out
to be. He was very, very
severely disabled as a child.
He's the role model for the
diagnosis of autism. He couldn't
use language effectively, didn't
connect with people. And, today,
he has a wonderful life as a man
in his 80s. He's living
alone in a little town in
Mississippi. He plays golf all
the time. He travels the world.
He has friends.
And the other thing about that
story is his community and the
role they played in it.
CAREN ZUCKER: They have totally
embraced him. They accepted him
for being different, so
he wasn't different.
JEFFREY BROWN: Given this sort
of history of confusion,
counterarguments, what do you
see happening now?
JOHN DONVAN: We're at a point
now where things aren't perfect,
but we have at least tried
to address the challenges of
children with autism in ways
that we weren't doing nearly
sufficiently even 25 years ago.
They're in public schools.
They're getting direct education
and direct therapy. But that's,
we think, the job only being
half-done, because there's a
whole -- something's going to
happen
to all of these kids, and
they're basically going to grow
up -- like, your son has just
turned 21.
CAREN ZUCKER: And his whole
life, he's had incredible
support and services, because of
the parents that
fought for them.
JEFFREY BROWN: You
see more acceptance.
JOHN DONVAN: Definitely.
JEFFREY BROWN: You see more
understanding in the society.
JOHN DONVAN: For children.
JEFFREY BROWN: For children. But
you still see many problems.
JOHN DONVAN: Well, there's a lot
of dissension and controversy of
all kinds. There always
been in the autism community.
We have lived through some of
them. The whole vaccine debate
has been one of them. There
are disagreements over whether
autism is something that should
be always and all the time
embraced
and celebrated as just a
different way to be human, or
whether autism sometimes can
be really so debilitating to
individuals that you want to do
something to change those
disabilities
in them.
There are fault lines all of the
time. But I don't think there's
a fault line on this
question of, what do we do about
adults? I think everybody agrees
it's a problem, but
nobody really has a solution.
And I don't sense that people
are loving the adults the
way they have learned to love
kids, because the truth is,
they're not going to be cute
in the same as kids are. And
they shouldn't have to be cute
to deserve and merit our
attention
and support.
JEFFREY BROWN: Do you have a
last word on that? Is it a
cultural issue? A political
issue? Or what do see?
CAREN ZUCKER: I think it's
cultural first, that some adults
are -- they're not embraced,
that people -- they're unknown
still. People aren't used to
having adults with autism
around.
JOHN DONVAN: A little story we
tell in our book is the perfect
thing.
It happened a few years ago on a
bus in New Jersey. There was a
kid sitting on a bus.
He was about 19 years old -- 17
years old. He's learning how to
ride the bus. His teacher
is in the back of the bus. He's
been for weeks showing him how
to ride the bus, and he's
been fading himself
farther and farther back.
And the kid starts making some
noises and flipping his fingers
and rocking in an odd
way. And two passengers behind
him start getting agitated about
this. And they start saying
to this kid, "Hey, weirdo,
what's you're problem?"
And the great -- yes, the great
thing is what happened next.
CAREN ZUCKER: Is that he had
been riding a bus for a few
weeks. So the people on the
bus were used to him. And some
guy stood up and said, "Hey,
he's got autism. What's your
problem? What's your reason
for acting like a jerk?"
And what happened is a
community formed around him.
JOHN DONVAN: Both the problem
was there and the solution was
there.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right. That's
one of the many stories told in
the book.
And the book is "In a Different
Key: The Story of Autism."
Caren Zucker, John
Donvan, thank you both.
JOHN DONVAN: Thanks,
Jeff, very much.
CAREN ZUCKER: Thank
you for having us.
GWEN IFILL: Finally tonight, a
young life dedicated to
capturing beauty cut short by
violence.
Al-Qaida militants attacked a
hotel in Burkina Faso on Friday.
Thirty people were killed,
including two who worked
for Amnesty International.
One of the amnesty workers was a
French-Moroccan photographer
named Leila Alaoui.
Earlier today, we spoke with one
of Alaoui's closest friends,
Aida Alami, who is also a
journalist. We reached her by
phone at Alaoui's funeral in
Marrakesh, Morocco.
AIDA ALAMI, Friend of Leila
Alaoui: She was a luminous,
really vibrant person. She was
really positive. She loved her
job. She loved her friends.
And she was a very active young
woman, traveling all the time,
working on topics she really
loved. She was very focused,
very dedicated to her work and
her subject.
Well, there's an anecdote I have
heard her say a lot, is that she
was French-Moroccan,
so, because of her French
passport, she could travel
everywhere, and she was always
really
interested in all these people
who could not cross borders and
so on. And she was wondering
why they were trying -- they
were risking their lives to go
to the other side.
She had a way of photographing
people like not many people, I
think, can do it. And so
she started getting to the
portraits -- into doing
portraits all over the world.
She did
a lot of human rights
campaigns for free.
She was just interested in
capturing people and capturing
people who were going through
hard times. And the reason she
was in Burkina is I know that
she was taking photos of
powerful
women. And she was actually
sending me once she was there a
lot of pictures of these women
that she was photographing, and
reported on subjects where she
was embedded for a long
time, for example, the plight of
Sub-Saharan Africans in Morocco.
She was so into it that I
couldn't see Leila without her
getting tons of phone calls of
undocumented people telling her
they were trying to cross, and
her giving them advice
and tell them, "No, don't
risk your life, don't cross."
She was constantly trying to
help them find a doctor, find
money for them. One day, I
was reporting on sub-Saharan
migrants in Morocco, and she
said told me, "Oh, well, this
afternoon
-- today, I'm going to be
recording a lot of them all day,
so if you want -- need some
subjects, just come
over to my place."
And I walked in, and there were,
like, 40 people in her living
room, and she was making
dinner for -- I mean, lunch for
them. I mean, she was just very
intense about all her subjects.
GWEN IFILL: That was
remarkable work she did.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It really was.
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
online: In his latest column,
our resident jobs guru asks
whether disappearing job
offers are the new trend.
We want to hear from you. Tell
us your experience with this on
our Making Sense page.
And scientists at Caltech have
found evidence of a massive
faraway planet. If true, it
would
constitute the ninth planet in
our solar system, an honor once
bestowed on Pluto. See images
of their findings
on our home page.
All that and more is on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that's
the "NewsHour" for tonight.
On Thursday, Making Sense looks
at how geography may have played
a part in producing geniuses
from Michelangelo to Steve Jobs.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening. For all of us
here at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.